[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Our brains don't slow
down until much older than
previously thought.
And how to train your
brain to stay focused,
no matter what is
going on around you.
This is a "Gaia News Breakdown."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The past few
decades, studies have
shown the speed at which
the human brain can
make simple decisions
peaks in our 20s,
with a rapid decline in
mental speed as we get older.
But a new study out of
Heidelberg University
in Germany, shows that our
brain speed doesn't slow down
until our 60s.
This new study included more
than one million participants.
And as author of the study,
Dr. Mischa von Krause,
of Heidelberg University
wrote, our results
show that average levels
in mental speed and context
demanding fast and
forced decisions
do not decline until relatively
late in the lifespan.
It is true the average time
to give a correct answer
peaks at about 20 years old.
But the authors
of this new study
say the brains of older
people are still fast.
It's their life experience that
makes them more cautious when
responding to a question.
Put another way, a
20-year-old will confidently
sacrifice accuracy for speed.
But as the participants
grew older,
they made fewer mistakes
until they hit the age 60.
Von Krause added,
it looks as, though,
in the course of
our life, we don't
need to fear any substantial
losses of mental speed,
particularly not in the course
of a typical working life.
Meantime, no matter what your
age, in this modern time,
you are facing a constant
barrage of distractions, so
much so that neuroscientist
Amishi Jha argues
we miss about half of our
lives due to distractions.
In her recent book, "Peak
Mind, Find Your Focus,"
she says you can
retrain your brain.
Jha argues, first,
stop multitasking.
Jha told "Inc Magazine" think
of your focus like a flashlight.
It can't shine two
places at the same time.
Instead, engage in monotasking.
Second, take brain breaks
throughout the day,
using the stop method.
S, stop what you're doing.
T, take a breath.
O, observe what is
happening around you.
And P, proceed.
And finally,
practice mindfulness.
Take 12 minutes per day
to focus on your breath.
Notice when your
mind has wandered.
Redirect your attention back
to your breath and repeat.
The goal is not to
have no distractions.
That's impossible, but to
notice when you are distracted
and get back on track.
Through this easy
practice, Jha says
you can retrain your brain
to focus and get back
the half of your life
that is slipping away.
For a new perspective, this
is a "Gaia News Breakdown."
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.
[MUSIC PLAYING]